# 1.1 Lecture notes

This book started as lecture notes. Since I was not happy with my level of understanding based on the lectures alone, I started to investigate all topics in the progression from the simplest assumptions and build on them.


# 1.2 Book draft


Very soon the body of my notes grew up and I had to start organizing them.

I realized that if I keep doing it I could have an ePub for my Kindle reader.

Soon after that I decided that if I write for the future readers, my notes and my understanding will be of much higher clarity.

  

The following statement used to work for me well in the past:

  

_“If you want to really understand the subject, try teaching it to others.”_

# 1.3 Why Deep Neural networks?

This is a first question we should ask ourselves, why spend long time studying Deep Neural Networks. 

# 1.4 **Not a history lesson** 

Just a few years ago, the executives, especially in automotive industry, did not want to use Deep Neural Network (DNN) solutions. They were old time engineers who liked math equations solved by hand. To them, DNN were a black-box solutions that they could not understand and trust. This book is not a history lesson. Today, all of this has changed.

**Multi-dimensional world**

An average person is very good at basic arithmetic in single dimension (1D).  
For example: distance = 1m + 3m = 4 m 

  

We can easily, grasp concept of two dimensions (2D).  
For example speed (velocity) of distance over time:

I walk 1.3 meters per second. velocity = distance/time = 1.3 m/s

  

People can easily visualize three dimensions (3D) of space coordinates x, y, z.

  

I work in **sensor perception**, so we commonly think in eight dimensions (8D).

Example can be:  
Coordinates, X, Y, Z, colors red (R), green (G), blue (B), intensity (I), temperature (T).

Alternatively, instead of x, y, z, Elevation angle (E), Azimuth angle (A), Depth (D). 

And material reflectivity (R) instead of reflected light intensity (I).

  

You can understand multi-dimensional system, and most engineers can write equations to describe them. 

  

_Things start getting difficult when you take a time-series of hundreds, or thousands of inputs and try to describe their relationship as an equation.  
The Deep Neural Networks (DNN) excel at the task of finding the equation (pattern, relationship) and processing them in a blink of an eye time._

  

An example of highly multi-dimensional system could be “market indicators” project I have done a few years ago that tracks a few decades of dozens major indicators per region like housing, sales, unemployment and many others, and stocks, index funds, etc., of that period. As you can imagine a 30 years of that data could easily fill a spread-sheet that has thousands or columns and over ten thousands rows for each day.  
  
Highly-multi-dimensional data is impossible to imagine, visualize or plot, or describe in thousand-degree polynomial equations. The Deep Neural Networks (DNN) do just that.